Oblivion - A Daedric Letter Font

by dongle

-------------------------

VERSION 1.1 NOTES:

This is a font based on the Daedric lettering system found the Elder Scrolls RPG series by Bethesda Softworks. The third edition, Morrowind, comes with one such font on the CD, created by Adam Pyle, that the game uses to display Daedric letters in books and scrolls on-screen.

I found this font lacking and set out to create my own. Look around at the banners on the island of Vvardenfell and you'll see several letters are a different style than the game-font. Most important is the letter "Y", which is not in the game-font, yet is used extensively on banners. A good example of the Y is in the upper-right-hand corner of the banner outside Tel Fyr. You'll also see quite a few on the inspirational banners around Vivec. Other significant differences are seen in the letters "D", "H", "J", and "U". Minor differences are found in most every other letter.

None of my letter vector outlines are taken directly from Adam Pyle's font on the game CD. They are all hand-traced in Adobe Illustrator.

I've also included some basic punctuation, which is missing in the game-font.
The game-font has sort of a rough-edged look, trying to mimic an old worn printing press. I've provided two versions of my font, one with smooth edged outlines, and one with the "worn" look.

-------------------------

VERSION 1.1 NOTES:

I've come across a graphic of a complete Daedric alphabet, including the letter "X", which is not found in the game. This alphabet has a hand-written look to it and is quite different from the banner style. I've adapted this "X" to the style of the other Oblivion letters. Another font, Oblivion Script, is based on this hand-written look.

There is also a different style of the letter "Y" in this graphic. It looks, in part, similar to the "E". I've kept the "Y" from the v1.0 Oblivion and put the alternate "Y" at positions 159 and 255. To type an alternate "Y"; hold down the "alt" key, on the number-pad type 159 (or 255), and release the "alt" key.

-------------------------

DAEDRIC LORE:

The Daedric letters first appeared the game Battlespire in 1997. It was a cipher, or code. It is not a different language, but merely alternatives to our well-known Roman letters. I have included a chart with the font packs to make decoding easier. Words on banners in Vvardenfell are generally spelled vertically, but also somewhat haphazardly.

-------------------------

COPYRIGHT INFO:

This was done entirely as a personal project. Bethesda Softworks graciously granted me the permission for it. I am not connected with them in any way.

You may freely use these fonts to create anything you'd like. You may re-distribute the fonts freely, over the Internet, or by any other means. Always keep the .zip file intact, and this read me included.

Please do not modify and redistribute the fonts without my permission.

You may NOT sell any of these fonts under any circumstances. This includes putting them on compilation font CDs for sale, putting them in a "members only" pay-area of a website, or any other means of financial gain connected in ANY way with the redistribution of any of these fonts.

You have my permission to create and sell any artwork made with these fonts, however you may need to contact Bethesda Softworks before doing so.

-------------------------

INSTALLATION:

True-Type fonts are compatible with any Windows OS. Un-zip and use the Control Panel link to the Fonts folder to install them. You can then type Daedric letters in any word processor, paint, or drawing program.

WARNING:

If you have Oblivion version 1.0 installed in Windows you will not be able to preview version 1.1. When you click on the v1.1 file you will be shown v1.0. Uninstall v1.0 before taking a look at v1.1.

-------------------------

Comments, suggestions, & flames:
deffeyes@yahoo.com

More Info:
http://www.deffeyes.com/morrowind/

Direct Download:
http://www.deffeyes.com/morrowind/Oblivion.zip
http://www.deffeyes.com/morrowind/Oblivion_Script.zip

-------------------------

Steve Deffeyes (aka dongle) April 2, 2003
